---
  title: "New site, new blog: Building like it's 2019, blogging like it's 1999"
  slug: new-site-new-blog
  author: Jon McClure
---

# New site, new blog: Building like it's 2019, blogging like it's 1999

Welcome to the redesigned and rebuilt POLITICO Interactive News team site. Just a couple quick notes on what we've built here and why we're starting a blog for you, our fellow newsnerds.

### Building for the future

First, some technical notes on our new site. One of the first things you'll notice is how FAST it is.

In case you missed it, our team plumped hard for [component-based frontends](https://twitter.com/JonRMcClure/status/1070022921291292678) last year after a positive run using React throughout the midterms.

We've carried that forward here, using [react-router](https://reacttraining.com/react-router/) to build our site as a [single page app](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-page_application). In a first for us, though, we're running the app through [react-snap](https://github.com/stereobooster/react-snap), which bakes out each of our SPA views with unique URLs and metatags. The benenfit of having a site that transitions between pages without reloading while never sacrificing search optimization is a huge step forward we plan to replicate in a few projects this year.

### Markdown ergonomics

Interactives team members will tell you my latest tick is talking about the "ergonomics" of our long-running code. That's my $10 word for how tricky our code is to update and maintain when we're coming back to it from a hiatus.

In this case, I wanted to replicate a feature of other static site builders I'd seen: the ability to register new blog posts by simply creating a new markdown file in a directory. Each post has some metadata I need to register with our app, while the actual content of each post I want to defer to an async call when you, dear reader, explicitly ask to see it.

Here's how we did it by creating a custom webpack plugin that pulls in our blog posts and reads some YAML front matter into a virtual module using
[webpack-virtual-modules](https://github.com/sysgears/webpack-virtual-modules) and [gray-matter](https://github.com/jonschlinkert/gray-matter):

```javascript
const fs = require('fs');
const path = require('path');
const matter = require('gray-matter');
const VirtualModulesPlugin = require('webpack-virtual-modules');

const posts = {};

fs.readdirSync(BLOG_DIR).forEach((file) => {
  const contents = fs.readFileSync(path.resolve(BLOG_DIR, file));
  posts[file.replace('.md', '')] = matter(contents).data; // e.g., 2019-06-19.md
});


const virtualModules = new VirtualModulesPlugin({
  'node_modules/Blog.js': `module.exports = ${JSON.stringify(posts)};`,
});

module.exports = virtualModules;
```

Now in my code, I can import my new pseudo-library and have access to the metadata for all posts in the `BLOG_DIR` directory:

```javascript
import posts from 'Blog';

posts.map(post => (
  <h1>{post.title}</h1>
));
```

Kinda cool!

### Why we're starting a blog in 2019

The short answer is I think we're doing cool things on this team, building tools and best practices I wish I had access to earlier in my career. Coming from our origins in regional newsrooms, we've always had an explicit mission to share as much of what we do as possible, whether that's code or process.

More and more often, though, we felt we were missing a tool to talk about our work outside the narrower scope of our READMEs.

After trying a few weird ways to abuse other platforms, like this [post-midterms shared twitter thread](https://twitter.com/JonRMcClure/status/1060642345241186304), we've decided to go back to a format better built to purpose: this blog.


So here's the deal: We'll commit to writing a few things here as we go. Breaking down the thought process behind our favorite projects, talking about the major decision points we've confronted as a team or just idly musing on [the state JavaScript in 2047](https://www.youtube.com/watch?reload=9&v=Ye_iob2MwGw)... We just ask you to talk back to us. Give us your critiques, tell us what you like about our work and, especially, what sucks.

We're looking forward to telling you more about us and hopefully having more conversations with you.
